- Now that we've installed GitLab Runner,
we need to register it with our repository manager,
or GitLab's Core.
So we'll start logged in
as an administrator within GitLab's UI.
From here we're going to enter the Admin Area,
and you'll notice we have a section
within the Admin Area dedicated to the Runners.
If we click on that section,
you'll see that it provides us with some instructions
for setting up a shared Runner.
Shared Runners are able to perform jobs
as part of any project's CI/CD pipeline.
So this is exactly what we want to establish.
You'll notice we get some specific
configuration instructions for registering a Runner.
So, there's kind of an interplay
between the command line and what we have here in the UI.
Let's hop over to the command line,
and we'll get the process started.
So, we need to issue this command
as an admin using sudo,
and it's simply gitlab-runner and then register.
And it's going to walk us through some questions,
and the answer to those questions are over on the UI.
So, it wants to know the URL for the Runner,
so basically we're just pointing the Runner
at our GitLab Core installation.
So let's just copy the URL here,
head back over to the terminal,
and then we can paste the URL.
It's now going to ask for a GitLab CI token.
Once again, this is found over on the user interface.
So simply copy this nice string of characters
and then navigate back to the terminal,
and we can paste our token.
At this point it's going to ask us for a description.
This is completely optional.
We're just going to leave it blank
and the same thing with the tags.
Now here's the important part
of setting up the GitLab Runner.
It can run in various modes.
There you see docker, virtualbox.
We're just going to be running
the GitLab Runner on the Ubuntu shell.
So, we're just going to specify shell,
and at this point our Runner is now registered.
If we navigate over to the user interface,
we will see, if we scroll down,
that our Runner was successfully registered.
There we see the Runner as well as its IP address
and when it last contacted the GitLab Core.
So we can see registration was successful.